Impression

Two left breast masses. One is stable and thus considered benign. The one
which demonstrated PET scan abnormality is likely the new one which has
arisen in proximity to the older one. Most likely the simple cyst would
correlate with the more benign mammographic finding, and in the other mass
possibly a fibroadenoma would correlate with the new mammographic finding.
However given that the PET scan was reported as abnormal, further workup
would be recommended. Suggest MRI left breast for additional evaluation.

BI-RADS CATEGORY: 0  Incomplete:  Additional imaging evaluation needed.

THE PATIENT WILL BE NOTIFIED OF THESE RESULTS IN WRITING.

RECOMMENDED FOLLOW-UP: Additional Imaging Evaluation Required

BREAST DENSITY:  Almost entirely fatty

Narrative

MAM DIGITAL SCREENING BILATERAL(CAD), US DIAGNOSTIC BREAST LEFT LTD

HISTORY: 8mm l breast mass per PET.

COMPARISONS:  (See below).

FINDINGS:
Bilateral craniocaudad and oblique views of the breasts obtained digitally
plus additional left MLO and left CC magnification compression spot views.
Interpreted with CAD assistance.

There is a roughly 1 cm nodule at central left breast which is similar to
10/5/2015 and 6/10/2014.

The current left MLO view demonstrates interval appearance of a second
nodule cephalad to that measuring approximately 1 cm. Not well seen on the
left CC screening view probably as it overlaps the other mass.

Supplemental views left breast-compression spot views followed
demonstrating the prior mass plus the second new mass in proximity to it.
Not clear which of these two masses would correlate with the abnormal mass
as reported on the 2/9/2018 PET scan though presumably the new mass would
be the PET scan abnormality as the other is stable and would not be
expected limited abnormal uptake on the PET scan.

Left breast ultrasound-Ultrasound followed for further evaluation
demonstrating 2 corresponding masses indication at the left breast 12:00
position 3 cm the nipple. The first measures 9.3 x 7.7 mm in the antiradial
plane, 8.2 x 8.0 mm in the radial plane, is hypoechoic with increased
through transmission though is not a simple cyst as it contains internal
echoes and a cleft or partial septation. Mild peripheral contour
lobulations.

The second mass is a benign-appearing simple cyst in the radial plane
measuring 9.6 x 6.9 mm, antiradial plane 9.6 x 6.8 mm.  Also noted with
limited scanning of the left axilla and axillary tail is a 1.3 cm diameter
grossly benign-appearing left axillary node, multiple bilateral axillary
nodes are present on the mammogram none of which particularly more
suspicious than any other.


