
Impression

IMPRESSION:
1. Evaluation for pulmonary embolism in the segmental and
subsegmental pulmonary arteries is nondiagnostic secondary to
respiratory motion artifact. There is no central pulmonary
embolism.
2. Interval increase in size of a right lower lobe mass, now
measuring 3.8 x 3.1 cm, worrisome for an underlying malignancy.
There has been interval development of at least 3 pulmonary
nodules noted in the right middle lobe, right lower lobe, and
left lower lobe as described above, with worrisome for
metastases. There has also been interval worsening of mediastinal
lymphadenopathy, which could reflect metastatic disease.
3. Diffuse interlobular septal thickening with scattered areas of
groundglass opacity are noted throughout the lungs. Given the
presence of cardiomegaly, this is favored to reflect pulmonary
edema, but please note that lymphangitic spread of tumor cannot
be excluded
4. Reflux of contrast into the IVC and hepatic veins could
reflect an element of right heart failure.

Narrative

CLINICAL INDICATION:    Shortness of breath, cough.

COMPARISON: ***

TECHNIQUE:
Postcontrast helical CT Angiogram acquisition from lung bases to
the apices with sagittal and coronal reformats at 2.5mm slice
thickness. Maximal intensity projection images were created as
part of this examination.

IV Contrast: 100 mL of Omnipaque 350
Complications: None.

Total exam CT Dose Index 16.43 mGy
Total exam Dose Length Product for a 312.27 mGy-cm

CT dose reduction technique utilized with one or more of the
following: Automated exposure control and/or adjustment of the mA
and/or kV according to patient size and/or use of iterative
reconstruction technique.

FINDINGS:

Evaluation for pulmonary embolism in the segmental and
subsegmental pulmonary arteries is nondiagnostic secondary to
respiratory motion artifact. There is no central pulmonary
embolism.

There is no thoracic aortic aneurysm.

There is mediastinal lymphadenopathy that has worsened in
severity from the prior study. For reference, a subcarinal lymph
node measures 3.7 x 2.1 cm. A precarinal lymph node measures 2.9
x 1.6 cm.

There is cardiomegaly with atherosclerotic calcification of the
coronary arteries. Reflux of contrast into the IVC and hepatic
veins could reflect an element of right heart failure. There is
no pericardial effusion.

The visualized upper abdomen is unremarkable.

There are tiny bilateral pleural effusions, right greater than
left.

There has been interval increase in size of a mass within the
right lower lobe as seen on series 2 image 276, measuring 3.8 x
3.1 cm on today's study, previously measuring 2.4 x 2.5 cm on the
examination from January 17, 2018.

There is a 1.2 x 0.9 cm nodule in the right middle lobe on series
2 image 286, new when compared to the prior study. A 0.8 x 0.5 cm
pleural-based nodule in the left lower lobe on series 2 image 326
is new when compared to the prior study. A 0.6 x 0.5 cm
pleural-based nodule is noted in the right lower lobe on series 2
image 343, new when compared to the prior study.

There is diffuse interlobular septal thickening with scattered
areas of groundglass opacity noted throughout the lungs.

There is no pneumothorax.

There is no suspicious lytic or blastic lesion. Degenerative
changes are noted in the spine.

