
Impression

IMPRESSION:
1. No evidence of acute pulmonary embolism
2. A 2.4 x 2.4 cm spiculated nodule is noted in the right lower
lobe. This is highly worrisome for a malignancy.
3. A few additional smaller pulmonary nodules are noted in the
right lung, the largest of which measures 6 mm and is located in
the right lower lobe. These are indeterminate in etiology.
4. There is mediastinal and right hilar lymphadenopathy as
described above, which is nonspecific in etiology.
5. There are scattered areas of abnormal groundglass density that
are interspersed between normally aerated lung. There is mild
interlobular septal thickening noted in the right upper lobe and
left upper lobe. In the acute setting, this could reflect
pulmonary edema. Small vessel or small airways disease could also
have a similar appearance.
6. Cardiomegaly
7. Abnormal dilation of the main pulmonary artery could be seen
with pulmonary arterial hypertension

Narrative

CLINICAL INDICATION:    Shortness Of Breath.      

COMPARISON: None

TECHNIQUE:
Postcontrast helical CT Angiogram acquisition from lung bases to
the apices with sagittal and coronal reformats at 2.5mm slice
thickness. Maximal intensity projection images were created as
part of this examination.

CTDI(vol): 18.78 mGy. DLP: 359.99 mGy*cm.

CT dose reduction technique utilized with one or more of the
following: Automated exposure control and/or adjustment of the mA
and/or kV according to patient size and/or use of iterative
reconstruction technique.

IV Contrast: 100 mL of Omnipaque 350
Complications: None.

FINDINGS:

There is no acute pulmonary embolism.

There is dilation of the main pulmonary artery, which measures up
to 3.6 cm in diameter.

There is no thoracic aortic aneurysm.

There is mediastinal and right hilar lymphadenopathy. For
reference, a precarinal lymph node on series 2 image 158 measures
3.0 x 1.5 cm. A right hilar lymph node on series 2 image 183
measures 2.4 x 2.0 cm. A right infrahilar lymph node on series 2
image 221 measures 1.6 x 1.7 cm.

There is cardiomegaly. There is no pericardial effusion. There is
atherosclerotic calcification of the coronary arteries.

The visualized upper abdomen is unremarkable.

There is no pulmonary consolidation, pleural effusion, or
pneumothorax.

There are scattered areas of abnormal groundglass density that
are interspersed between normally aerated lung. There is mild
interlobular septal thickening noted in the right upper lobe and
left upper lobe.

There is a 2.4 x 2.4 cm spiculated nodule noted in the right
lower lobe on series 2 image 244. There are a few additional
smaller pulmonary nodules noted in the right lung, the largest of
which measures 6 mm and is located in the right lower lobe on
series 2 image 303. Note is made of a 3 mm nodule in the right
upper lobe on series 2 image 96.

There is no suspicious lytic or blastic lesion. 


